Yeah, let's kinda go back
into our database layer and
create our functions to register a user.
So when I think of registering a user,
there's really two main functions that I
think makes sense,
maybe you agree with it or not.
But essentially first is,
does this user exists, right?
If we have a bunch of values in our db and
we wanna insert a new one,
we wanna make sure that it's new,
it's unique, it doesn't constrain or
conflict with a primary key
that we've created earlier.
And then the second one is,
how do I insert a new record,
essentially, into DynamoDB?
Okay, and to help explain this, especially
the first part where we're first checking
if this user exists, I find it really
useful to look at the documentation for
getting item from a DynamoDB
table using AWS SDK.
And you can see here, SDK is supported
by a bunch of different languages,
Go, Colin, Javascript,
Swift is in there, but basically,
this is the TLDR of how you can
retrieve a value from DynamoDB.
You have this struct, it contains our
client, very similar to what we have.
We have a struct, it interacts
directly with our DynamoDBClient,
and then it has this notion of retrieving
the item by calling our dbClient.
And then, putting all that into
a reference of get item input,
where we're calling it by the key and
the table name.
And that key is primary key constraint,
when you insert a value, it's that really,
really important actual structure thing
that we need to identify of records
are being inserted into Dynamo.
And there's different properties here of
how they choose to put the table name into
the struct.
I chose it to do a different way, but
again, it's one of those things where
you can do whatever you want,
whatever makes sense to you.
But essentially this is a gist,
we're gonna assemble our response using
the key and table name properties
of the GetItem input struct.
Cool, so let's go ahead and do this.
So, first I want to create a function
that has a receiver to our actual client.
So, I think it makes sense to make this
you, and we'll do DynamoDBClient().
So that struct can actually call this or
do GetUser().
Now that you GetUser,
let's actually make two functions,
we gonna first DoesUserExist().
And I'm gonna tell you right away, you
can combine these two functions into one,
you can check if a user exists
while retrieving it into one.
I just think it makes a little bit more
sense if we separate it, but, yeah,
you can definitely combine this into
making a more solid function as both
purposes, and then this is gonna
return a Boolean and an error, okay?
Basically does the exist, yes, no.
If there's an error,
let's send back that error.
And following that DynamoDB documentation,
we gonna basically do u.databaseStore,
the property
that we have on our DynamoDBClient,
we hit GetItem, okay?
And this GetItem is gonna take
our dynamodb.GetItemInput(), and
clear that, and the only thing we care
about are two values, key and table name.
So, before we input our table name,
we have to declare it.
And again, I'm working backwards,
cuz we don't have a table right now,
it doesn't exist, right?
So what I'm going to do is I'm gonna
create a const all the way up here, and
this is gonna house my table name.
So TABLE_NAME, and
can just state this userTable, okay?
It's fine,
we're not gonna get any complaints
from the compiler cuz of the constant.
So go back to our GetItemInput,
our struct here.
We're gonna put TableName as
aws.String(TABLE NAME), okay?
This is one of the important
products to identify, like, okay,
what table we're actually hitting.
And I'm gonna have a key.
So key is going to be a map.
The first value is a string, and
it's going to map to our
DynamoDB attribute value.
And this attribute value is basically
the definition of the records that
we wanna check if they
exist in our DynamoDB.
And you can use attribute value for
a bunch of different things.
You can have it for multiple fields,
for this purpose, all we're checking is
by the main primary key,
which is our username, which is a string.
So here, we put username, okay?
And it's gonna be struct 2S.
This S is specific for AWS.
This represents that
the field is a string, okay?
And it's different values, you can have
like a float, an int, a Boolean, and
all those, each of them have a separate
character associated to them.
So here we have username,
I'm gonna put, aws.String(username).
Okay?
So this is basically the operation,
it's gonna tell us, hey,
do we have a record in our DynamoDB table,
where the main key is username and
the value is what we're passing in,
which is string username, okay?
Yes.
>> Can you repeat,
how did you define table name again?
Is it just a const at the top?
>> Yeah, yeah.
So, the table name over here is just
a const at the top, just user table.
The documentation, they have this as
a field on the DynamoDBClient struct,
totally fine.
That's absolutely that makes sense.
I'm just choosing just to put const here,
just, I don't know,
makes it more simplistic for me.
Yes, question.
>> A couple of questions about
the address versus pointer.
Yeah, GetItem parameter for the DynamoDB.
>> Yep.
>> Why you are using that.
>> Yep, if I remove this,
I'm gonna get a giant compilation error.
So I'm forced to use this.
And this is by AWS design, because AWS,
this is one of the properties
of having references,
you have the ability to use nil.
And AWS has probably some logic under the
hood that is using this know property to
be able to handle some logic.
But also, when you pass a reference,
it's more efficient than passing by copy.
So if, imagine, our key here is
it's dumb simple to one string.
If you pass it by reference or
copy, nothing's going to move.
But imagine where we're inserting
a humongous amount properties,
we don't want to copy that through and
through, it's not gonna be as performant.
So, passing by reference is
gonna give us a little bit more
performance to our execution here.
And then, there's the nil ability as well,
to handle nil correctly.
Not correctly, but
you can handle nil however you want.
Okay, so now, most famous line in Go,
if error does not equal to no,
we're going to search.
So if the user exists,
if there's an unforeseen error,
we don't want to return false.
And the reason for that,
even if this user does not exist,
if we experienced an error, let's say
our DyamoDB table is down or something.
We don't want to let our user know in
the front of our logic to get mixed up and
give them any kind of
possibility to insert a user.
And you can check this multiple ways,
so really this first argument it's,
you don't really need
cuz you can put false.
I like to just be a little extra safe and
put false, and
in here what's actually
required is this error.
Because once we call this function,
if there is an error,
we will then catch that error in
the layer above, in the API layer, okay?
Now, if result.Item is nil,
this is one of those properties of
why we're using reference and
why AWS chose to use references,
cuz we can do this no property,
this zero value comparison.
What this means is, does the user exist?
No, there is no item here.
So we can return false And nil.
Okay?
Otherwise, there is an item, so
we're gonna return true and nil.
So there's three different categories,
error, they exist, they don't exist.
Cool?
Anyone got any questions on that?
Okay.
Yes.
>> You have multiple return statements
in there, like, other languages,
when you run that first return statement,
no further code execution [INAUDIBLE].
>> Yes.
Exactly [INAUDIBLE]
>> Yep, that's correct.
Yeah, so if we hit this block line 40,
we'll not execute the rest
of the code here.
That's what we actually have this return
here to kind of go have our function and
to return some value if we never
hit these if conditionals.
All right, so, that basically takes care
of the function where we are checking,
does a user exist?
Now let's actually insert the user.
So, given the exact same thing,
let's go and ahead and
make a receiver to our DynamoDBClient,
and let's just call it InsertUser.
And now this is where we're gonna
use the very first file we modified,
the user, which is of types.RegisterUser.
You can bring this in up here,
lambda-func/types.
That was the very first file
we modified here, okay?
And so, now we can return,
basically the only thing we wanna
return from this is an error, okay?
Because we're choosing to
separate our function and
we have this earlier DoesUserExist,
we don't need anything returned from this,
just, it is an error, yes, no?
Okay, now,
inserting a record into DynamoDB is not
just like executing raw SQL or using ORM.
You basically have to assemble your record
in a type that DynamoDB understands,
to be put into the database.
Okay, so we first have to assemble
the item and then we insert it.
So let's go ahead and assemble this.
We can do item is going to be a reference
to dynamodb.PutItemInput, okay?
Again, reference versus non-reference,
this is just how AWS SDK chose
to organize their code, okay?
We're gonna put TableName: aws.String,
we're gonna put our const as table name.
And the exact same thing we're gonna
assemble, not our key, but our item, okay?
Because we wanna basically
insert something into this.
But it's gonna follow the same
structure as a string,
okay, to dynamodb.AttributeValue.
And this struct is gonna basically
contain all the records we wanna insert.
So first is gonna be a username, okay,
which as we've already wrote this
aws.String, and it can be user.username,
okay, because we're passing in our
registered user and
it has those fields associated to it.
And here we can do password and
still gonna be sharing
aws.String(user.password).
Now, I know what you're thinking,
this is the plain text password, it is.
As of right now it,
is the plain text password.
So once we call this, we are literally
going to be storing the actual password
you put it as a user into our database.
It's not a permanent solution,
we're gonna fix this.
But all we've done so
far is assemble the item,
we actually haven't
inserted the item at all.
And to insert an item, we're gonna
actually have to bring in a new,
well, we don't actually
have to bring anything,
what we do have to do though
is just call PutItem.
And this PutItem just takes the item
that we just assembled above.
The reason why we're ignoring the first
argument is because that is a return that
you can specify to return
the user that you've inserted or
return a property of that user once
you've put it in the database, okay?
And again, you're gonna have to get
used to if error does not equal to null.
We could write a helper function,
but that's not fun.
Here, and then we can return null.
Cool, and so
we've kind of just assembled our logic for
handling our DB connectivity,
our DB experience.
Check if the user exists and
then entering the user into that DB table.